.TH HULAK 1 "May 2026" "hulak" "General Commands Manual"

.SH NAME
hulak \- file\-based API client with encrypted secrets

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B hulak
[<command>] [options]
.br
.B hulak
[\-env <environment>] [\-fp|\-f|\-dir|\-dirseq <target>] [\-debug]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Hulak runs API requests defined in YAML files. Requests live in
.B .hk.yaml
files. Secrets live in
.B .hulak/store.age
(encrypted, default) or
.B env/*.env
(classic mode).
.PP
Run
.B hulak <command> \-\-help
for flags and per\-command examples.

.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B run
Run API request file(s) or directory
.TP
.B version
Print hulak version
.TP
.B init
Initialize a hulak project
.TP
.B example
Scaffold an example request file
.TP
.B migrate
Migrate Postman collections to hulak format
.TP
.B completion
Print a shell completion script (for go\-install users)
.TP
.B doctor
Check project health
.TP
.B gql (alias: graphql)
Open the GraphQL explorer
.TP
.B mcp
Serve requests to AI agents over MCP
.TP
.B secrets (alias: env)
Manage encrypted environment secrets
.TP
.B help
Show help for hulak

.SH PICKER BEHAVIOR
Omitting
.B \-\-env
opens an interactive picker.
.PP
.B hulak run
and
.B hulak gql
only prompt when files reference
.B {{.key}}
variables.
.PP
.B hulak secrets
subcommands prompt every time, except
.B secrets list
which lists env names and takes no
.B \-\-env
.
.PP
Non\-interactive shells require
.B \-\-env <name>
.

.SH ENVIRONMENT SETUP
Create a project and initialize:
.PP
.RS
hulak init
.RE
.PP
Scaffold named env files at init time:
.PP
.RS
hulak init \-env staging prod
.RE
.PP
Use
.B hulak init classic
for the plaintext
.B env/
layout instead of the encrypted vault.

.SH INSTALLATION
.PP
.RS
brew install xaaha/tap/hulak
.RE
.PP
Or:
.PP
.RS
go install github.com/xaaha/hulak@latest
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
Project README and docs:
.RS
https://github.com/xaaha/hulak
.RE
.PP
Schema:
.RS
https://raw.githubusercontent.com/xaaha/hulak/refs/heads/main/assets/schema.json
.RE
.PP
For the live CLI surface, run
.B hulak help
or
.B hulak <command> \-\-help
.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2025 Pratik Thapa. Released under the MIT License.

.SH SOURCE CODE
https://github.com/xaaha/hulak

.SH AUTHOR
xaaha
